docs/src/pages/basics.mdx, before:

# Basics

<!-- There are 5 hooks in react-spring currently:

- `useSpring` a single spring, moves data from a -> b
- `useSprings` multiple springs, for lists, where each spring moves data from a -> b
- `useTrail` multiple springs with a single dataset, one spring follows or trails behind the other
- `useTransition` for mount/unmount transitions (lists where items are added/removed/updated)
- `useChain` to queue or chain multiple animations together -->

The basic spring is [useSpring](/hooks/use-spring), but the same concept applies to all animation primitives. Let's have a look...

```jsx
import { useSpring, animated } from 'react-spring'

function App() {
  const props = useSpring({ to: { opacity: 1 }, from: { opacity: 0 } })
  return <animated.div style={props}>I will fade in</animated.div>
}
```

### First, you fetch your imports

```jsx
import { useSpring, animated } from 'react-spring'
```

You need the animation-primitive itself, and a special factory called `animated`. This library animates outside React (for performance reasons). Your view has to know how to handle the animated props you pass to it. This is what `animated` is there for, it extends native elements to receive animated values.

### Next, define your spring

```jsx
const props = useSpring({ to: { opacity: 1 }, from: { opacity: 0 } })
```

A spring simply animates values from one state to another. Updates are accumulative, springs remember all the values you ever pass. You can use arbitrary names. There are a couple of reserved keywords like "from" (for base values). [You can learn about the api here](/hooks/use-spring). The received props are not static values! These props are self-updating, you cannot use them in regular divs and such.

### Finally, tie the animated values to your view

```jsx
return <animated.div style={props}>I will fade in</animated.div>
```

In the view part of your component you simply wire these props in. Make sure to extend the native element you want to animate using `animated`. If your target is the web then `animated` contains all valid html elements (divs, spans, svgs, etc). If you want to animate React components, styled-components, or elements on other platforms, then do this:

```jsx
// React components
const AnimatedDonut = animated(Donut)

// React-native
const AnimatedView = animated(View)

// styled-components, emotion, etc.
const AnimatedHeader = styled(animated.h1)`
  ...;
`
```

### Do not think of the values you pass as "styles" per se

Although you can use them as such.

```jsx render=true edit=true
function Text() {
  const [flip, set] = useState(false)
  const props = useSpring({
    to: { opacity: 1 },
    from: { opacity: 0 },
    reset: true,
    reverse: flip,
    delay: 200,
    config: config.molasses,
    onRest: () => set(!flip),
  })

  return <animated.h1 style={props}>hello</animated.h1>
}
```

Do with them whatever you like, animate attributes for instance,

```jsx render=true edit=true
function SVG() {
  const [flip, set] = useState(false)
  const { x } = useSpring({
    reset: true,
    reverse: flip,
    from: { x: 0 },
    x: 1,
    delay: 200,
    config: config.molasses,
    onRest: () => set(!flip),
  })

  return (
    <animated.svg
      style={{ margin: 20, width: 80, height: 80 }}
      viewBox="0 0 45 44"
      strokeWidth="2"
      fill="white"
      stroke="rgb(45, 55, 71)"
      strokeLinecap="round"
      strokeLinejoin="round"
      strokeDasharray={156}
      strokeDashoffset={x.to(x => (1 - x) * 156)}>
      <polygon points={POINTS} />
    </animated.svg>
  )
}
```

innerText,

```jsx render=true edit=true
function Number() {
  const [flip, set] = useState(false)
  const { number } = useSpring({
    reset: true,
    reverse: flip,
    from: { number: 0 },
    number: 1,
    delay: 200,
    config: config.molasses,
    onRest: () => set(!flip),
  })

  return <animated.div>{number.to(n => n.toFixed(2))}</animated.div>
}
```

scrollTop/scrollLeft,

```jsx render=true edit=true
function Scrolling() {
  const [flip, set] = useState(false)

  const words = ['We', 'came.', 'We', 'saw.', 'We', 'kicked', 'its', 'ass.']

  const { scroll } = useSpring({
    scroll: (words.length - 1) * 50,
    from: { scroll: 0 },
    reset: true,
    reverse: flip,
    delay: 200,
    config: config.molasses,
    onRest: () => set(!flip),
  })

  return (
    <animated.div
      style={{
        position: 'relative',
        width: '100%',
        height: 60,
        overflow: 'auto',
        fontSize: '0.5em',
      }}
      scrollTop={scroll}>
      {words.map((word, i) => (
        <div
          key={`${word}_${i}`}
          style={{ width: '100%', height: 50, textAlign: 'center' }}>
          {word}
        </div>
      ))}
    </animated.div>
  )
}
```

## Up-front interpolation

Springs take pretty much everything, they don't just handle numbers.

- Colors (names, rgb, rgba, hsl, hsla, gradients)
- Absolute lengths (cm, mm, in, px, pt, pc)
- Relative lengths (em, ex, ch, rem, vw, vh, vmin, vmax, %)
- Angles (deg, rad, grad, turn)
- Flex and grid units (fr, etc)
- All HTML attributes
- SVG paths (as long as the number of points matches, otherwise use [custom interpolation](https://codesandbox.io/embed/lwpkp46om))
- Arrays
- String patterns (transform, border, boxShadow, etc)
- Non-animatable string values (visibility, pointerEvents, etc)
- ScrollTop/scrollLeft

```jsx
const props = useSpring({
  vector: [0, 10, 30],
  display: 'block',
  padding: 20,
  background: 'linear-gradient(to right, #009fff, #ec2f4b)',
  transform: 'translate3d(0px,0,0) scale(1) rotateX(0deg)',
  boxShadow: '0px 10px 20px 0px rgba(0,0,0,0.4)',
  borderBottom: '10px solid #2D3747',
  shape: 'M20,20 L20,380 L380,380 L380,20 L20,20 Z',
  textShadow: '0px 5px 15px rgba(255,255,255,0.5)',
})
```

## Shorthand style props

**In the web version only,** you can avoid the boilerplate of using the `to`
function to combine multiple animated values into a `transform` string like you
had to do in v8.

Instead, you can try defining an animated value in the `style` object using one
of the following shorthand props:

- `x`, `y`, `z`
- `translate`, `translateX`, `translateY`, `translate3d`
- `rotate`, `rotateX`, `rotateY`, `rotate3d`
- `scale`, `scaleX`, `scaleY`, `scale3d`
- `skew`, `skewX`, `skewY`
- `matrix`, `matrix3d`

```jsx
const { x, y } = useSpring({ x: 0, y: 0 })

// v8
import { to } from 'react-spring'
const transform = to([x, y], (x, y) => `translate(${x}px, ${y}px)`)
return <a.div style={{ transform }} />

// v9
return <a.div style={{ x, y }} />
```

These shorthand props will be added to `@react-spring/native` in the future.
For now, they only exist in `@react-spring/web`. **Want them in native? Consider submitting a [PR](https://github.com/pmndrs/react-spring/issues/1408)**

## View interpolation

In cases where you need to clamp or extrapolate, each animated value can interpolate inside the view, which is a powerful tool to have. The interpolate function called `to` either takes a function or an object which forms a range. Interpolations can also form chains which allows you to route one calculation into another or reuse them. [Look into the shared-api](/common/interpolation) for an object description.

You may wonder why you wouldn't always interpolate inside of the spring. View interpolation can be a little faster, and it takes up less space.

```jsx
import { useSpring, animated, to } from 'react-spring'

const { o, xyz, color } = useSpring({
  from: { o: 0, xyz: [0, 0, 0], color: 'red' },
  o: 1,
  xyz: [10, 20, 5],
  color: 'green',
})

return (
  <animated.div
    style={{
      // If you can, use plain animated values like always, ...
      // You would do that in all cases where values "just fit"
      color,
      // Unless you need to interpolate them
      background: o.to(o => `rgba(210, 57, 77, ${o})`),
      // Which works with arrays as well
      transform: xyz.to((x, y, z) => `translate3d(${x}px, ${y}px, ${z}px)`),
      // If you want to combine multiple values use the "interpolate" helper
      border: to([o, color], (o, c) => `${o * 10}px solid ${c}`),
      // You can also form ranges, even chain multiple interpolations
      padding: o
        .to({ range: [0, 0.5, 1], output: [0, 0, 10] })
        .to(o => `${o}%`),
      // Interpolating strings (like up-front) through ranges is allowed ...
      borderColor: o.to({ range: [0, 1], output: ['red', '#ffaabb'] }),
      // There's also a shortcut for plain, optionless ranges ...
      opacity: o.to([0.1, 0.2, 0.6, 1], [1, 0.1, 0.5, 1]),
    }}>
    {o.to(n => n.toFixed(2)) /* innerText interpolation ... */}
  </animated.div>
)
```

## Additional notes

### Animating "auto"

Hooks differ from renderprops in that they don't know the view. Therefore handling "auto" is out of scope of the hooks api. This may sound like a regression, but consider that measuring auto with hooks is easier than ever before, and it makes patterns possible that were very hard to realize before, for [instance nesting auto content](https://twitter.com/0xca0a/status/1094683974679621633). Look for [react-resize-aware](https://github.com/FezVrasta/react-resize-aware), [react-measure](https://github.com/souporserious/react-measure), etc.

```jsx
const [bind, { height }] = useMeasure()

const props = useSpring({ height })

return (
  <animated.div style={{ overflow: 'hidden', ...props }}>
    <div {...bind}>content</div>
  </animated.div>
)
```

### Emulating css-keyframes

Sometimes you want to go through a series of states, like css keyframes, you can use interpolations for this.

```jsx
/*
0 % { transform: scale(1); }
25 % { transform: scale(.97); }
35 % { transform: scale(.9); }
45 % { transform: scale(1.1); }
55 % { transform: scale(.9); }
65 % { transform: scale(1.1); }
75 % { transform: scale(1.03); }
100 % { transform: scale(1); }
`*/

const props = useSpring({ x: state ? 1 : 0 })

return (
  <animated.div
    style={{
      transform: props.x
        .to({
          range: [0, 0.25, 0.35, 0.45, 0.55, 0.65, 0.75, 1],
          output: [1, 0.97, 0.9, 1.1, 0.9, 1.1, 1.03, 1],
        })
        .to(x => `scale(${x})`),
    }}
  />
)
```

```jsx render=true code=false
/*
0 % { transform: scale(1); }
25 % { transform: scale(.97); }
35 % { transform: scale(.9); }
45 % { transform: scale(1.1); }
55 % { transform: scale(.9); }
65 % { transform: scale(1.1); }
75 % { transform: scale(1.03); }
100 % { transform: scale(1); }
`*/

function Example() {
  const [state, toggle] = useState(true)
  const { x } = useSpring({
    from: { x: 0 },
    x: state ? 1 : 0,
    config: { duration: 1000 },
  })
  return (
    <div onClick={() => toggle(!state)} style={{ cursor: 'pointer' }}>
      <animated.div
        style={{
          opacity: x.to({ range: [0, 1], output: [0.3, 1] }),
          transform: x
            .to({
              range: [0, 0.25, 0.35, 0.45, 0.55, 0.65, 0.75, 1],
              output: [1, 0.97, 0.9, 1.1, 0.9, 1.1, 1.03, 1],
            })
            .to(x => `scale(${x})`),
        }}>
        click
      </animated.div>
    </div>
  )
}
```

### Dependency arrays

Every hook except `useChain` now supports a `deps` argument, which is an array exactly like what `useEffect` takes.

Whenever a dependency is changed, the update will be processed and thus the animation will be updated. But otherwise, updates are ignored when all dependencies are unchanged.

When a dependency array is passed, or the spring object is created with a function the `useSpring` and `useSprings` hooks each return an `api` object. For more information see the [`Imperatives & Refs`](/common/imperatives-and-refs) section

```js
const [style, api] = useSpring({ x: 0, y: 0 }, [])
useEffect(() => {
  api.start({ x: 100, y: 100 })
}, [])
```

```js
const [style, api] = useSpring(() => ({ x: 0, y: 0 }))
useEffect(() => {
  api.start({ x: 100, y: 100 })
}, [])
```

### Forwarding refs and the `animated` HoC

For performance reasons, the attributes of animated DOM elements are updated directly by `animated` using a ref to the DOM node, rather than via React updates. Internally, `animated` figures out the difference between DOM elements and regular components by checking the type of the component using a `ref`. This means that if you use `forwardRef` on a component wrapped with `animated` and then pass that ref onto a DOM node, `animated` will treat that component as though it were a DOM node itself, and will stop triggering React updates to interpolate when the animated props change.

For example:

```jsx
const MyAnimatedComponent = animated(({ value }) => <div>{value}</div>)

const MyAnimatedComponentWithRefForwarding = animated(
  forwardRef(({ value }, ref) => <div ref={ref}>{value}</div>)
)

const MyComponentWithSpring = () => {
  const { value } = useSpring({
    from: { value: 0 },
    to: { value: 1 },
  })

  return (
    <>
      /* This component will automatically update as "value" changes */
      <MyAnimatedComponent value={value} />
      /* This component will not automatically update as "value" changes */
      <MyAnimatedComponentWithRefForwarding value={value} />
    </>
  )
}
```

You can work around this problem by forwarding refs as regular props:

```jsx
const AnimatedComponent = animated(({ value, forwardedRef }) => (
  <div ref={forwardedRef}>{value}</div>
))

const AnimatedComponentWithRefForwarding = useRef((props, ref) => (
  <AnimatedComponent {...props} forwardedRef={ref} />
))
```

Commit message:

feat: css variables (#1798)
* chore: demo shuffle

* chore: add css variable demo

* feat: strings with `var(*)` should be animated

* feat: add root finding off CSS variables

* feat: add css fallback parsing

* docs: update with CSS Variables

* fix: revert deps being defined by default

* chore: remove install-state

* fix: add better testing an correctly parse variables as anticipated

* docs: reword CSS variables to be clearer

docs/src/pages/basics.mdx, after:

# Basics

<!-- There are 5 hooks in react-spring currently:

- `useSpring` a single spring, moves data from a -> b
- `useSprings` multiple springs, for lists, where each spring moves data from a -> b
- `useTrail` multiple springs with a single dataset, one spring follows or trails behind the other
- `useTransition` for mount/unmount transitions (lists where items are added/removed/updated)
- `useChain` to queue or chain multiple animations together -->

The basic spring is [useSpring](/hooks/use-spring), but the same concept applies to all animation primitives. Let's have a look...

```jsx
import { useSpring, animated } from 'react-spring'

function App() {
  const props = useSpring({ to: { opacity: 1 }, from: { opacity: 0 } })
  return <animated.div style={props}>I will fade in</animated.div>
}
```

### First, you fetch your imports

```jsx
import { useSpring, animated } from 'react-spring'
```

You need the animation-primitive itself, and a special factory called `animated`. This library animates outside React (for performance reasons). Your view has to know how to handle the animated props you pass to it. This is what `animated` is there for, it extends native elements to receive animated values.

### Next, define your spring

```jsx
const props = useSpring({ to: { opacity: 1 }, from: { opacity: 0 } })
```

A spring simply animates values from one state to another. Updates are accumulative, springs remember all the values you ever pass. You can use arbitrary names. There are a couple of reserved keywords like "from" (for base values). [You can learn about the api here](/hooks/use-spring). The received props are not static values! These props are self-updating, you cannot use them in regular divs and such.

### Finally, tie the animated values to your view

```jsx
return <animated.div style={props}>I will fade in</animated.div>
```

In the view part of your component you simply wire these props in. Make sure to extend the native element you want to animate using `animated`. If your target is the web then `animated` contains all valid html elements (divs, spans, svgs, etc). If you want to animate React components, styled-components, or elements on other platforms, then do this:

```jsx
// React components
const AnimatedDonut = animated(Donut)

// React-native
const AnimatedView = animated(View)

// styled-components, emotion, etc.
const AnimatedHeader = styled(animated.h1)`
  ...;
`
```

### Do not think of the values you pass as "styles" per se

Although you can use them as such.

```jsx render=true edit=true
function Text() {
  const [flip, set] = useState(false)
  const props = useSpring({
    to: { opacity: 1 },
    from: { opacity: 0 },
    reset: true,
    reverse: flip,
    delay: 200,
    config: config.molasses,
    onRest: () => set(!flip),
  })

  return <animated.h1 style={props}>hello</animated.h1>
}
```

Do with them whatever you like, animate attributes for instance,

```jsx render=true edit=true
function SVG() {
  const [flip, set] = useState(false)
  const { x } = useSpring({
    reset: true,
    reverse: flip,
    from: { x: 0 },
    x: 1,
    delay: 200,
    config: config.molasses,
    onRest: () => set(!flip),
  })

  return (
    <animated.svg
      style={{ margin: 20, width: 80, height: 80 }}
      viewBox="0 0 45 44"
      strokeWidth="2"
      fill="white"
      stroke="rgb(45, 55, 71)"
      strokeLinecap="round"
      strokeLinejoin="round"
      strokeDasharray={156}
      strokeDashoffset={x.to(x => (1 - x) * 156)}>
      <polygon points={POINTS} />
    </animated.svg>
  )
}
```

innerText,

```jsx render=true edit=true
function Number() {
  const [flip, set] = useState(false)
  const { number } = useSpring({
    reset: true,
    reverse: flip,
    from: { number: 0 },
    number: 1,
    delay: 200,
    config: config.molasses,
    onRest: () => set(!flip),
  })

  return <animated.div>{number.to(n => n.toFixed(2))}</animated.div>
}
```

scrollTop/scrollLeft,

```jsx render=true edit=true
function Scrolling() {
  const [flip, set] = useState(false)

  const words = ['We', 'came.', 'We', 'saw.', 'We', 'kicked', 'its', 'ass.']

  const { scroll } = useSpring({
    scroll: (words.length - 1) * 50,
    from: { scroll: 0 },
    reset: true,
    reverse: flip,
    delay: 200,
    config: config.molasses,
    onRest: () => set(!flip),
  })

  return (
    <animated.div
      style={{
        position: 'relative',
        width: '100%',
        height: 60,
        overflow: 'auto',
        fontSize: '0.5em',
      }}
      scrollTop={scroll}>
      {words.map((word, i) => (
        <div
          key={`${word}_${i}`}
          style={{ width: '100%', height: 50, textAlign: 'center' }}>
          {word}
        </div>
      ))}
    </animated.div>
  )
}
```

## Up-front interpolation

Springs take pretty much everything, they don't just handle numbers.

- Colors (names, rgb, rgba, hsl, hsla, gradients)
- CSS Variables (declared on :root) and their fallbacks
- Absolute lengths (cm, mm, in, px, pt, pc)
- Relative lengths (em, ex, ch, rem, vw, vh, vmin, vmax, %)
- Angles (deg, rad, grad, turn)
- Flex and grid units (fr, etc)
- All HTML attributes
- SVG paths (as long as the number of points matches, otherwise use [custom interpolation](https://codesandbox.io/embed/lwpkp46om))
- Arrays
- String patterns (transform, border, boxShadow, etc)
- Non-animatable string values (visibility, pointerEvents, etc)
- ScrollTop/scrollLeft

```jsx
const props = useSpring({
  vector: [0, 10, 30],
  display: 'block',
  padding: 20,
  background: 'linear-gradient(to right, #009fff, #ec2f4b)',
  transform: 'translate3d(0px,0,0) scale(1) rotateX(0deg)',
  boxShadow: '0px 10px 20px 0px rgba(0,0,0,0.4)',
  borderBottom: '10px solid #2D3747',
  shape: 'M20,20 L20,380 L380,380 L380,20 L20,20 Z',
  textShadow: '0px 5px 15px rgba(255,255,255,0.5)',
  color: 'var(--darkModeColor)',
})
```

## Shorthand style props

**In the web version only,** you can avoid the boilerplate of using the `to`
function to combine multiple animated values into a `transform` string like you
had to do in v8.

Instead, you can try defining an animated value in the `style` object using one
of the following shorthand props:

- `x`, `y`, `z`
- `translate`, `translateX`, `translateY`, `translate3d`
- `rotate`, `rotateX`, `rotateY`, `rotate3d`
- `scale`, `scaleX`, `scaleY`, `scale3d`
- `skew`, `skewX`, `skewY`
- `matrix`, `matrix3d`

```jsx
const { x, y } = useSpring({ x: 0, y: 0 })

// v8
import { to } from 'react-spring'
const transform = to([x, y], (x, y) => `translate(${x}px, ${y}px)`)
return <a.div style={{ transform }} />

// v9
return <a.div style={{ x, y }} />
```

These shorthand props will be added to `@react-spring/native` in the future.
For now, they only exist in `@react-spring/web`. **Want them in native? Consider submitting a [PR](https://github.com/pmndrs/react-spring/issues/1408)**

## View interpolation

In cases where you need to clamp or extrapolate, each animated value can interpolate inside the view, which is a powerful tool to have. The interpolate function called `to` either takes a function or an object which forms a range. Interpolations can also form chains which allows you to route one calculation into another or reuse them. [Look into the shared-api](/common/interpolation) for an object description.

You may wonder why you wouldn't always interpolate inside of the spring. View interpolation can be a little faster, and it takes up less space.

```jsx
import { useSpring, animated, to } from 'react-spring'

const { o, xyz, color } = useSpring({
  from: { o: 0, xyz: [0, 0, 0], color: 'red' },
  o: 1,
  xyz: [10, 20, 5],
  color: 'green',
})

return (
  <animated.div
    style={{
      // If you can, use plain animated values like always, ...
      // You would do that in all cases where values "just fit"
      color,
      // Unless you need to interpolate them
      background: o.to(o => `rgba(210, 57, 77, ${o})`),
      // Which works with arrays as well
      transform: xyz.to((x, y, z) => `translate3d(${x}px, ${y}px, ${z}px)`),
      // If you want to combine multiple values use the "interpolate" helper
      border: to([o, color], (o, c) => `${o * 10}px solid ${c}`),
      // You can also form ranges, even chain multiple interpolations
      padding: o
        .to({ range: [0, 0.5, 1], output: [0, 0, 10] })
        .to(o => `${o}%`),
      // Interpolating strings (like up-front) through ranges is allowed ...
      borderColor: o.to({ range: [0, 1], output: ['red', '#ffaabb'] }),
      // There's also a shortcut for plain, optionless ranges ...
      opacity: o.to([0.1, 0.2, 0.6, 1], [1, 0.1, 0.5, 1]),
    }}>
    {o.to(n => n.toFixed(2)) /* innerText interpolation ... */}
  </animated.div>
)
```

## Additional notes

### Animating "auto"

Hooks differ from renderprops in that they don't know the view. Therefore handling "auto" is out of scope of the hooks api. This may sound like a regression, but consider that measuring auto with hooks is easier than ever before, and it makes patterns possible that were very hard to realize before, for [instance nesting auto content](https://twitter.com/0xca0a/status/1094683974679621633). Look for [react-resize-aware](https://github.com/FezVrasta/react-resize-aware), [react-measure](https://github.com/souporserious/react-measure), etc.

```jsx
const [bind, { height }] = useMeasure()

const props = useSpring({ height })

return (
  <animated.div style={{ overflow: 'hidden', ...props }}>
    <div {...bind}>content</div>
  </animated.div>
)
```

### Emulating css-keyframes

Sometimes you want to go through a series of states, like css keyframes, you can use interpolations for this.

```jsx
/*
0 % { transform: scale(1); }
25 % { transform: scale(.97); }
35 % { transform: scale(.9); }
45 % { transform: scale(1.1); }
55 % { transform: scale(.9); }
65 % { transform: scale(1.1); }
75 % { transform: scale(1.03); }
100 % { transform: scale(1); }
`*/

const props = useSpring({ x: state ? 1 : 0 })

return (
  <animated.div
    style={{
      transform: props.x
        .to({
          range: [0, 0.25, 0.35, 0.45, 0.55, 0.65, 0.75, 1],
          output: [1, 0.97, 0.9, 1.1, 0.9, 1.1, 1.03, 1],
        })
        .to(x => `scale(${x})`),
    }}
  />
)
```

```jsx render=true code=false
/*
0 % { transform: scale(1); }
25 % { transform: scale(.97); }
35 % { transform: scale(.9); }
45 % { transform: scale(1.1); }
55 % { transform: scale(.9); }
65 % { transform: scale(1.1); }
75 % { transform: scale(1.03); }
100 % { transform: scale(1); }
`*/

function Example() {
  const [state, toggle] = useState(true)
  const { x } = useSpring({
    from: { x: 0 },
    x: state ? 1 : 0,
    config: { duration: 1000 },
  })
  return (
    <div onClick={() => toggle(!state)} style={{ cursor: 'pointer' }}>
      <animated.div
        style={{
          opacity: x.to({ range: [0, 1], output: [0.3, 1] }),
          transform: x
            .to({
              range: [0, 0.25, 0.35, 0.45, 0.55, 0.65, 0.75, 1],
              output: [1, 0.97, 0.9, 1.1, 0.9, 1.1, 1.03, 1],
            })
            .to(x => `scale(${x})`),
        }}>
        click
      </animated.div>
    </div>
  )
}
```

### Dependency arrays

Every hook except `useChain` now supports a `deps` argument, which is an array exactly like what `useEffect` takes.

Whenever a dependency is changed, the update will be processed and thus the animation will be updated. But otherwise, updates are ignored when all dependencies are unchanged.

When a dependency array is passed, or the spring object is created with a function the `useSpring` and `useSprings` hooks each return an `api` object. For more information see the [`Imperatives & Refs`](/common/imperatives-and-refs) section

```js
const [style, api] = useSpring({ x: 0, y: 0 }, [])
useEffect(() => {
  api.start({ x: 100, y: 100 })
}, [])
```

```js
const [style, api] = useSpring(() => ({ x: 0, y: 0 }))
useEffect(() => {
  api.start({ x: 100, y: 100 })
}, [])
```

### Forwarding refs and the `animated` HoC

For performance reasons, the attributes of animated DOM elements are updated directly by `animated` using a ref to the DOM node, rather than via React updates. Internally, `animated` figures out the difference between DOM elements and regular components by checking the type of the component using a `ref`. This means that if you use `forwardRef` on a component wrapped with `animated` and then pass that ref onto a DOM node, `animated` will treat that component as though it were a DOM node itself, and will stop triggering React updates to interpolate when the animated props change.

For example:

```jsx
const MyAnimatedComponent = animated(({ value }) => <div>{value}</div>)

const MyAnimatedComponentWithRefForwarding = animated(
  forwardRef(({ value }, ref) => <div ref={ref}>{value}</div>)
)

const MyComponentWithSpring = () => {
  const { value } = useSpring({
    from: { value: 0 },
    to: { value: 1 },
  })

  return (
    <>
      /* This component will automatically update as "value" changes */
      <MyAnimatedComponent value={value} />
      /* This component will not automatically update as "value" changes */
      <MyAnimatedComponentWithRefForwarding value={value} />
    </>
  )
}
```

You can work around this problem by forwarding refs as regular props:

```jsx
const AnimatedComponent = animated(({ value, forwardedRef }) => (
  <div ref={forwardedRef}>{value}</div>
))

const AnimatedComponentWithRefForwarding = useRef((props, ref) => (
  <AnimatedComponent {...props} forwardedRef={ref} />
))
```
